With the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, people living in humanitarian contexts are particularly vulnerable to the pandemic and will continue to feel the post-pandemic impacts. For people living in areas with weak health systems, disrupted social support networks, and ongoing conflict and instability, the coronavirus is an additional crisis that they have to face and adapt to. Within this population, youth face increased vulnerability. The Adolescent Girls in Crisis: Voices from the Lake Chad Basin report indicates that young women and girls are particularly affected, given the challenges that they already face around access to basic social services, and lack of voice. Youth groups however, provide a critical voice for accountability at the community, state/district and national level. In addition, most youth groups tend to be self-led, volunteer-based, internally-funded and informal with little to no structure. As the pandemic continues to wreak havoc on nations’ economies, the pressure for economic survival is heightened for this group who already face bleak employment or income generation prospects. Beyond the impact on youth as individuals, there’s a threat to their ability to contribute to community building through youth groups, as their focus shifts to economic survival. This report seeks to highlight the effects of the pandemic on young people, and how they are facing their future. A report on the experiences of adolescent girls caught up in the Lake Chad crisis, and how they respond to the challenges they are facing. This Lake Chad Programme Strategy (2018 - 2023) outlines our bold ambition to transform the life of girls and their families in the Lake Chad Region. It moves beyond a humanitarian vision towards a full spectrum programme, working at the nexus of humanitarian and development efforts to promote children’s rights and gender equality. One year after Oslo Conference funds forestalled famine in the Lake Chad Basin, millions of people are still in desperate need of aid.