  The resulting report, A Better Normal: Girls Call for a Revolutionary Reset, has launched today and will be presented to the United Nations General Assembly in September. Worldwide, the COVID-19 crisis has seen a stripping back of girls’ rights as millions face child marriage, an end to their education and as lockdowns continue, a sharp increase in violence and teen pregnancy. Despite the vast humanitarian challenge the pandemic has brought, girls remain optimistic to use the ‘global pause’ as a moment to create real, lasting and profound change on a number of fronts. The entirely girl-led research was led by 22 young women aged between 15 to 25 in Australia and Vietnam, with support from the charity for girls’ equality Plan International Australia. Plan International CEO, Anne-Birgitte Albrectsen, said girls are well-placed to lead significant change on behalf of their generation and generations to come. 
 
“There is no doubt COVID-19 has exposed, revealed, deepened and created significant cracks in our systems, institutions and leadership. As the world rebuilds in the wake of this crisis, do we want to simply return to ‘normal’ or can we create something better, together?
 
“Our world before this pandemic was one that repeatedly and undeniably failed girls and young women. To create a better normal, we have to listen to the experiences and ideas of girls and young women, instead of ignoring them. 
 
“Girls are powerful agents for change, there is no denying this, and when they have a voice and people start to listen, amazing things happen. 
 
“This report is a really clever roadmap with practical solutions on how we build that new world hand in hand with young people. “Around the world, governments and authorities are considering how to build back better, the calls from girls and young women couldn’t be clearer: they demand to be heard and included in decision-making processes, have power over the issues that affect their lives and play an active role in creating a more just and sustainable world.” Girls and young women have created six visions for a better post-COVID world and focus tested these with their peers in 99 countries. The visions were tested with 365 girls and young women aged 10-25. Of these: Some of the many recommendations to achieve these goals, include: Read the report: A better normal This report is for power holders everywhere, including governments and policy makers: we ask you to hear our calls for change and engage with us to co-create this better normal. It is also for girls and young women around the world, as well as our peers, families and communities. We hope this energises you and that you will join us on the journey of co-creating this new reality also! How will Plan International support girls, young women and vulnerable groups? Frequently asked questions about the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19 is unravelling decades of progress for girls' equality. Please help stop the setback for girls in crisis.