  Four billion people worldwide are currently sheltering at home, as part of government-mandated lockdowns in over 90 countries. The economic and social impact of the pandemic, compounded by widespread lockdowns, have dramatically increased the numbers of girls and women experiencing abuse worldwide, including sexual, physical, psychological and emotional violence. Children and young people, who identify as LGBTQI+, are also at increased risk as they may be quarantined in homes or communities that are not accepting of their identity. “Quarantine measures, although critical to COVID-19 response, are putting girls and women at great risk of violence and sexual abuse, including intimate partner violence," said Rosamund Ebdon, Head of Policy, Plan International. "In many cases they have been cut off from essential response services and social networks, limiting their access to helplines, safe spaces and mental health support. Access to sexual and reproductive health services and legal support has also been affected.” Plan International is appealing for €100 million to protect some of the world’s most vulnerable children and their communities from the impacts of COVID-19. Our response, covering at least 50 countries, will specifically focus on assisting girls, who are disproportionately affected by the crisis. “Vital services to support girls and women have been overlooked in national response plans to COVID-19. It’s worst in countries with already fragile support systems and where resources have been diverted to tackle the pandemic. If governments don’t act right now, millions of girls and women will become victims of violence and abuse - with lifelong consequences.” Globally, 1 in 3 women have experienced physical and/or sexual violence by an intimate partner or other perpetrators in their lifetime. Plan International’s experience of responding to Ebola in West Africa in 2014 shows that violence against girls and women tends to escalate during every type of emergency, including epidemics. Adolescent girls often suffer unique vulnerabilities due to their age and gender. The COVID-19 pandemic can have significant impacts on their nutrition, education, safety, sexual and reproductive health and rights, and their ability to be active citizens, with lifelong consequences. “We are receiving reports of girls being abused by people they know, the same ones they are now stuck at home with. In most countries under lockdown in Eastern and Southern Africa, we have seen a number of child marriage cases driven by the loss of household income,” said Tinotenda Hondo, Gender Equality Specialist, Plan International. The situation is particularly dangerous for adolescent girls who are displaced, refugees and those living in conflict-affected areas. “Closure of protective environments such as schools, learning centres and child friendly spaces will not only have a negative impact on girls’ education but also on their protection in the form of heightened risks of child marriage, sexual exploitation, child labour, neglect, physical and emotional abuse,” said Sharon Chikanya, Technical Advisor on Adolescent Girls in Crisis, Plan International. As part of its response, Plan International will work to prevent transmission of COVID-19 in vulnerable communities – particularly in refugee camps and among displaced populations - where the risks to girls and young women are particularly high. We are calling on governments to ensure that protection services are recognised as essential services and continue to be funded adequately throughout all stages of the outbreak response. This must include ensuring access to and availability of helplines, safe spaces, sexual and reproductive health and rights services, and mental health and psychosocial support, as well as legal remedies. Services must be adapted to ensure they remain accessible, including by using remote forms of provision. Donate to the COVID-19 appeal Please help us support the most vulnerable children affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. We will ensure girls, young women, children and vulnerable groups are protected and supported as the COVID-19 crisis unfolds. Fear is spreading through the world’s largest refugee camp in Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh, as a potentially devastating COVID-19 catastrophe looms.