  The COVID-19 pandemic is an unprecedented global emergency, one which is likely to have a devastating effect on the African continent if the trends seen in other parts of the world take root in the region. The pandemic will exacerbate the inequalities already faced by vulnerable populations, particularly adolescent girls. Measures to control the spread of the virus - including school closures, working from home, physical distancing and restrictions on movements - will have unintended consequences for girls’ education. Lessons from the Ebola crisis show that school closures can lead to increases in gender-based violence, teenage pregnancies, child marriage, exploitation and other forms of abuse against adolescent girls. School closures will be especially devastating for girls with greater vulnerabilities, such as refugees, internally displaced persons (IDP), returnees and girls with disabilities. Countries experiencing extreme poverty, economic vulnerability and crises have the highest gender disparities in education. School closures in Mali, Niger, and South Sudan —three countries with some of the lowest enrolment and completion rates for girls —have forced over four million girls out of education. This could increase the risk of child marriage, teenage pregnancy, exploitation and gender-based violence. Many of the complex factors that drive child marriage are also exacerbated in emergency settings, as family and community structures break down during crises. A pandemic of this nature presents unique challenges that require action to protect adolescent girls from violence and exploitation, both in the response and recovery phases. Critical interventions that prioritize gender-responsive education plans, along with economic incentives and other social protection measures, will ensure that adolescent girls are not left behind, and that they receive the education they deserve. The impact of COVID-19 on adolescent girls is likely to surpass that caused by the Ebola epidemic. We collectively express our solidarity with the African Union and its Member States in the COVID-19 response. We reflect and applaud its remarkable leadership on the ‘Africa against Ebola’ programme that mobilised relevant resources and expertise to establish response mechanisms that contained the epidemic. As multilateral and NGO partners working on girls’ education and ending child marriage, we have put in place several measures to respond to the COVID-19 crisis. These include rapid response financing for the education sector at country level, policy recommendations and technical assistance, as well as collating and sharing evidence and good practice. Details are found in Annex 1. In solidarity with the AU, we have mobilised our collective expertise to share the following principles of good practice to mitigate the impacts of COVID-19 on girls’ education and their vulnerabilities. We hope these will be useful to the AU Commission in its efforts to ensure girls in its Member States remain educated, protected and safe during this pandemic. We will also use our networks to support the dissemination and application of these good practices. Our respective organisations are committed to working with the AU to address the challenges of this pandemic. We look to you for your ongoing leadership. Please accept your Excellencies, the expression of our highest consideration. Signatories
 
Dr. Nyaradzayi Gumbonzvanda, African Union Goodwill Ambassador on Ending Child Marriage and Founder and CEO of Rozaria Memorial Trust
Dr. Faith Mwangi-Powell, CEO of Girls Not Brides, The Global Partnership to end Child Marriage
Alice Albright, CEO of the Global Partnership for Education
Anne-Brigitte Albrectsen, CEO of Plan International
Martha Muhwezi, Executive Director of Forum for African Women Educationalists (FAWE) We will ensure girls, young women, children and vulnerable groups are protected and supported as the COVID-19 crisis unfolds. Evidence from COVID-19 affected countries and research into girls in other recent crises suggests an impending invisible catastrophe. Our goal is to contribute to the prevention of the transmission of COVID-19 and reduce the social impact on the most vulnerable communities - particularly in refugee camps, displaced settings, urban slums and sponsorship communities across Plan International programme countries.