 Gunvor Kronman, from Finland, brings more than 20 years’ experience in development and humanitarian work and was appointed for her strong leadership and management expertise and commitment to Plan International’s mission. “In my work, I am inspired by the meaning I find in trying to make the world a slightly better place. I cannot imagine a better way to do that than to promote equality and a better life for children, especially girls.” Kronman said. The new chair sees the strengthening of political forces and extremism seeking to undermine the rights of girls and young women as particularly burning issues around the world, including in the EU. “I want Plan International to co-operate strongly during my term with other actors promoting girls’ rights and with feminist and other partners so that we can resist reactionary forces and defend the results already achieved in equality and the position of girls,” she added. “This year, we’ve also seen the social and economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic hit particularly hard on girls who are already in the most vulnerable position. The pandemic has affected the lives of girls so devastatingly that the progress made over the last 25 years is at risk of being lost, and we must do everything we can to stop that happening. Organisations and states must now work together to tackle the enormous challenges they face and defend their rights around the world.” Kronman, PhD., has worked in management positions in the private, public and NGO sectors for more than 20 years, both in Finland and internationally. From 2010 to 2015, she served as the chair of the board of Plan International Finland, and in 2015 took up the role of vice-chair of Plan International, the charity’s international umbrella organisation. She has also held significant international positions in the Red Cross for 16 years and served as the vice-chair of the Crisis Management Initiative (CMI) and the chair of the Development Policy Committee for 10 years. “Over the past 10 years, Plan International has become increasingly focused on the status and rights of the girls in the most vulnerable positions in the world, and Plan has become a major equality actor and an expert in the position of girls in the international arena. Gunvor Kronman's strong equality expertise, strategic thinking and ability to build bridges between different actors and countries have played a significant role in this change, both in Finland and in the international organisation as a whole,” says Ossi Heinänen, Secretary General of Plan International Finland. Kronman has been elected chair of the board for a three-year term lasting from 2021 to 2023.