 From London to Mumbai, Nairobi to New York, 30 influential artists have come together for a new art collection and sale envisioning a new world post-COVID 19 with new rules for girls and women. Organised by global child rights and humanitarian organisation, Plan International, the global ‘New World, New Rules' collection envisages a new world for girls after the pandemic where they will be equally seen, valued and heard. From cutting-edge illustrators and graphic artists to trail blazing painters, the artists have submitted at least one piece of work imagining what a ‘new normal’ could look like for girls and women. Each piece will become a limited-edition print, costing just £30 each (excluding postage and VAT), with proceeds going to Plan International UK’s coronavirus appeal. Heta Fell, Plan International’s Brand Activism and Advocacy Manager, said: “The coronavirus pandemic highlights the stark inequalities faced by girls and women across the globe. “They are at greater risk of violence in the home, have greater exposure to infection due to their traditional roles as caregivers, are less likely to return to school when they reopen, and are likely to be last in line for jobs when it comes to rebuilding their lives. “This is why it’s vital we push now for a better, more equal world for girls. We must refuse to return to a status quo that continues to hold girls back.” New World, New Rules has been conceptualised as part of Girls Get Equal – the global campaign for gender equality created by Plan International with girl activists all over the world. “It is about taking the chance we have to create a new world, with new rules, where girls in all their diversity are seen, heard and valued as equals,” said Ms Fell. Donating artists include Cassi Namoda, from Mozambique, who said: “I’d like for the post-COVID-19 future for women and girls to be a future of independent, self-sustaining women who learn new trades and are able to expand wherever their heart desires.”   The global art sale launched on Wednesday 27th May and art lovers have until Sunday 14th June to order a limited edition print. As well as renowned artists, Plan International has also opened submissions up to girls, inviting them to participate with their own artwork via social media callouts and global youth networks. Their artworks will be shortlisted, and the best work will join the professional prints online. 100% of the profits from New World, New Rules go to Plan International UK’s Coronavirus Appeal. Plan International is raising €100 million to protect some of the world’s most vulnerable children and their communities from the impacts of COVID-19. Our response, covering more than 50 countries, is focused on assisting children - particularly girls, who are disproportionately affected by the crisis. Donate to Plan International’s COVID-19 appeal and find out more about our response here. COVID-19 Appeal Please help us support the most vulnerable children affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The global campaign demanding power, freedom and representation for girls and young women. COVID-19 and the efforts to suppress it will have an alarming impact on the lives and rights of girls and young women. Already treated as second class citizens in many countries, they are least likely to return to school or find a new job, and most likely to suffer abuse and violence at home when the protective umbrella of education and care systems are no longer in place.