  Plan International welcomes the revision of Global Humanitarian Response Plan (GHRP) to combat COVID-19 which is devastating lives and economies across the world. The revision of the global funding target (up from US $2billion to US $6.7 billion) and inclusion of 9 additional countries will help scale up the humanitarian effort to include millions more vulnerable people that are in desperate need of assistance. The world must now come together and tackle this pandemic as a collective global effort. This means that donors must significantly step up their financial and political support to the GHRP in line with its increased ambition and ensure that funding reaches at-risk communities as quickly as possible. Failure to do so means risking a global humanitarian crisis on a scale never seen before. Plan International is also urging donors to ensure funding for pre-existing humanitarian programming is preserved.  Even before the COVID-19 pandemic, humanitarian needs outstripped available funding and it is critical that resources are not diverted from programmes essential to the health, safety and wellbeing of children, girls and young women. We are pleased to see the inclusion of Zimbabwe and Mozambique in the revised GHRP. Both countries are currently in the midst of a food insecurity crisis and the compounding impact of the COVID-19 pandemic could make an already alarming situation catastrophic. The organisation strongly supports the enhanced focus in the GHRP on addressing the diverse effects of COVID-19 on different groups, particularly the worsening risks for girls, including impacts on their education. The COVID-19 pandemic is deeply affecting the environment in which girls and all children grow and develop, undermining their immediate protection and longer-term wellbeing and resilience. Plan International has been urging governments to recognise that the COVID-19 pandemic is affecting girls and boys, women and men differently. Girls living in crisis situations, especially those from marginalised communities and with disabilities, may be particularly affected by the secondary impacts of the outbreak due to their age, gender and other exclusion factors. The organisation also welcomes the increased emphasis on the role of NGOs in the humanitarian response to COVID-19. Local, national and international NGOs are critical actors in the response to COVID-19, and as direct implementing partners on the ground are essential to deal the pandemic and save lives. NGOs worldwide are working with UN and government agencies and scaling up efforts to ensure continuity of essential services and compliance with health measures. They are also poised to step up operations to meet escalating needs. In order for them to do this it is essential that NGOs at all levels are able to quickly access flexible and increased funding as directly as possible, that also enables them to cover the costs of operating safely and ensure a duty of care to staff and partners. With grassroots presence and strong trust from communities, humanitarian organisations like Plan International, can deliver lifesaving aid to some of the most vulnerable populations and play a huge role in global efforts to fight the virus. Learn about our response to the COVID-19 pandemic We will ensure girls, young women, children and vulnerable groups are protected and supported as the COVID-19 crisis unfolds. Please help us support the most vulnerable children affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. How will Plan International support girls, young women and vulnerable groups? Frequently asked questions about the COVID-19 pandemic.