  The COVID-19 crisis in Jordan is having a disproportionate impact on girls and young women in the most deprived communities, placing them at greater risk of gender-based violence, making it harder for them to access sexual and reproductive health services, and leaving the vast majority unable to earn an income, according to an assessment by child rights and humanitarian organisation, Plan International. Drawing on surveys, interviews and focus groups involving nearly 400 adolescents and adults from five different locations in Jordan, including Syrian refugee camps, as well as interviews with doctors, nurses, midwives, community workers, youth educators, and members of the government, the study highlights how girls and young women are bearing the brunt of the crisis in the country. The study was carried out by Plan International in April in conjunction with the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), and the Institute for Family Health (IFH). It shows: Jordan is home to more than 700,000 refugees, with the majority of them having fled the conflict in Syria. More than 80% of them live outside of camps in areas that are densely populated and overcrowded. The housing conditions for most refugees means they are typically sharing a room with three others, effectively making social distancing an impossibility. Muna Abbas, Plan International’s Country Director in Jordan, said: “Many of the girls and women in Jordan’s poorest communities have already endured displacement and conflict. Now the lockdown has severely disrupted their livelihoods and access to support such as family planning services, leaving them with even less control over their lives and bodies than they had before. On top of this, the pressures and stresses of daily life have been magnified, and we know this has led to higher levels of gender-based violence and particularly intimate partner violence.” Plan International is raising €100 million to protect some of the world’s most vulnerable children and their communities from the impacts of COVID-19. The organisation’s response, covering at least 50 countries, including Jordan, is focused on assisting children - particularly girls, who are disproportionately affected by the crisis. Ms Abbas continued: “We are especially worried about the impact of the crisis on vulnerable children, particularly adolescent girls, who now face a frightening daily reality and an uncertain future. The pandemic has turned their lives, education, and livelihoods upside down, and this loss of mobility and personal power places them at great risk of exploitation and abuse. “In short, the pandemic is a profound threat to the rights of women, girls, and young people in the country’s poorest communities, and there is an urgent need for concerted, assertive action on the part of the UN, civil society, the government, and donors to ensure the protection and empowerment of women and girls.” Other findings include: Plan International Jordan has developed a robust COVID-19 response plan to address the most urgent needs of vulnerable groups in the country – particularly children and adolescent girls. The organisation will focus on integrated and holistic programming including child protection and education, as well as COVID-19 hygiene and awareness-raising measures. Donate to Plan International’s COVID-19 appeal and find out more about our response. COVID-19 appeal We will ensure girls, young women, children and vulnerable groups are protected and supported as the COVID-19 crisis unfolds. How will Plan International support girls, young women and vulnerable groups? Frequently asked questions about the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 outbreak will deeply affect the environment in which children and young people grow and develop. Girls, especially the most marginalised, will be particularly affected by the secondary impacts of the outbreak. This advocacy brief outlines these issues and what the international community must do to mitigate them.