In the few months since the COVID-19 pandemic started, it has already created disruptions in societies across the globe and has instituted challenges on how we relate and operate on a daily basis. Exacerbating pre-existing manifestations of gender inequality and social exclusion, it has the potential to stop or even reverse the progress made towards gender equality, inclusion, and girls’ rights.  With its global strategy, 100 Million Reasons, Plan International has committed to adopt a Gender Transformative Approach (GTA) in all its programming and influencing work to be able to sustainably contribute to gender equality and inclusion. With this approach, the organisation is aiming to address the root causes of gender inequality and exclusion and reshape unequal gender and power relations between all children, young people and adults regardless of their gender. So, while it is pivotal that we as an organisation effectively manage and learn from our short-term humanitarian response to this pandemic, staff are at the same time reflecting on the medium and long-term social and political impacts from COVID-19 and developing flexible and context-specific interventions to address these. This includes creatively finding ways to continue to engage with different actors, partners and organizations (both public and private) every step of the way for implementing a gender transformative approach. Staff are also using the opportunity the pandemic is offering for continuing to advance their strategic work, for example, in changing gender norms, building individual and collective agency, protecting especially vulnerable groups and strengthening gender and youth-friendly responsive services. We believe that the COVID-19 epidemic should not be an excuse to put on hold our gender transformative approach and our commitment to tackling the root causes of gender inequality. How will Plan International support girls, young women and vulnerable groups? Frequently asked questions about the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19 and the efforts to suppress it will have an alarming impact on the lives and rights of girls and young women. Already treated as second class citizens in many countries, they are least likely to return to school or find a new job, and most likely to suffer abuse and violence at home when the protective umbrella of education and care systems are no longer in place. Evidence shows that the impact of COVID-19 on displaced and refugee girls and women – on their health, safety and opportunities for education and decent jobs – is making already difficult lives increasingly unendurable.