The current law in Bangladesh that addresses child marriage is the Child Marriage Restraint Act, 2017 (CMRA) that repealed the earlier British law of 1929. The Act sets the minimum age of marriage for a male as 21 years and for a female as 18 years. CMRA criminalizes contracting, allowing, or solemnising of a child marriage. In 2018, the Child Marriage Restraint Rules (the Rules) had been also formulated providing details of the formation and responsibilities of the Child Marriage Prevention Committees, along with other functional details. Although the stringent provisions in the new law, including its focus on preventive measures, have been well appreciated by the key stakeholders, there had also been disagreements over certain aspects of the law. Inclusion of a ‘special provision’ (under section 19 of CMRA) allowing marriage below 18 years had faced serious criticisms. Besides, as both the Act and the Rules were newly enacted, there was a need among the civil society members to eectively understand and act on the new legal regime set up for restraining child marriages. A thorough analysis of the new law would thus provide an opportunity to identify areas that needs greater attention both in terms of law reform and of advocacy strategies for stronger implementation. As such this study commissioned by Plan International Bangladesh analyses the CMRA’17 and the Rules and attempts to identify existing gaps and inconsistencies. Based on the legal analysis, the study then proposes specic reforms in the current legal regime for restraining child marriages. The study rst contextually analyses the child marriage situation both globally and at the national level and discusses the international and national legal framework relevant for addressing child marriage in Bangladesh. The study then critically reviews the key provisions of the CMRA and its corresponding rules and elaborately analyses the key gaps in the provisions. Apart from the inadequacies in the laws relating to child marriage, the study also focuses on certain other lacunas in the enforcement of the CMRA and its Rules. Such gaps include lack of awareness about the laws and procedures, poor functioning of the preventive mechanisms, weak implementation of the marriage and birth registration system, limited prosecution of child marriage, absence of protection and support systems for victims, etc. The study concludes by recommending a concise proposal for specic reforms in the CMRA and its Rules.